## 2.-Class-&-Id

(It's defined with a *.* in front of the name of the class) and we use classes when:
-  we want to **apply the same style to the same elements**.
-  But **Not all elements** of the same name

The most common way to do this is to add a class to your #HTML element and target that class. 

```html
<ul>
  <li>Item one</li>
  <li class="special">Item two</li>
  <li>Item <em>three</em></li>
</ul>
```
In your #CSS file, you can target the class of `special` by creating a selector that starts with a full stop character. Add the following to your CSS file:
```css
.special {
  color: orange;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```

You can apply the class of `special` to any element on your page that you want to have the same look as this list item. For example, you might want the `<span>` in the paragraph to also be orange and bold. 

Sometimes you will see rules with a selectors:
```css
li.special {
  color: orange;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```
This syntax means "target any `li` element that has a class of special". If you were to do this then you would no longer be able to apply the class to a `<span>` or another element by adding the class to it.

To do it, You would have to add that element to the list of selectors:
```css
li.special,
span.special {
  color: orange;
  font-weight: bold;
}
```
_Note_: As you can imagine, some classes might be applied to many elements and you don't want to have to keep editing your CSS every time something new needs to take on that style. Therefore it is sometimes best to ==bypass the element and refer to the class==, unless you know that you want to create some special rules for one element alone, and perhaps want to make sure they are not applied to other things.

### 2.1.1 Styling things based on their location in a document

There are times when you will want something to look different based on where it is in the document. There are a number of selectors that can help you here, but for now we will look at just a couple. In our document, there are two `<em>` elements — one inside a paragraph and the other inside a list item. To select only an `<em>` that is nested inside an `<li>` element I can use a selector called the **descendant combinator**, which takes the form of a space between two other selectors.

Add the following rule to your stylesheet.
```css
li em {
  color: rebeccapurple;
}
```
This selector will select any `<em>` element that is inside (a descendant of) an `<li>`. So in your example document, you should find that the `<em>` in the third list item is now purple, but the one inside the paragraph is unchanged.

Something else you might like to try is styling a paragraph when it comes directly after a heading at the same hierarchy level in the HTML. To do so place a `+` (an **adjacent sibling combinator**) between the selectors.

Try adding this rule to your stylesheet as well:
```css
h1 + p {
  font-size: 200%;
}
```
The live example below includes the two rules above. Try adding a rule to make a span red, if it is inside a paragraph. You will know if you have it right as the span in the first paragraph will be red, but the one in the first list item will not change color.

{{EmbedGHLiveSample("css-examples/learn/getting-started/started2.html", '100%', 1100)}}

> **Note:** As you can see, CSS gives us several ways to target elements, and we've only scratched the surface so far! We will be taking a proper look at all of these selectors and many more in our [Selectors](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/en-US/docs/Learn/CSS/Building_blocks/Selectors) articles later on in the course.

### 2.1.2 Styling things based on state

The final type of styling we shall take a look at in this tutorial is the ability to style things based on their state. A straightforward example of this is when styling links. When we style a link we need to target the [`<a>`](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/a) (anchor) element. This has different states depending on whether it is unvisited, visited, being hovered over, focused via the keyboard, or in the process of being clicked (activated). You can use CSS to target these different states — the CSS below styles unvisited links pink and visited links green.
```css
a:link {
  color: pink;
}

a:visited {
  color: green;
}
```
You can change the way the link looks when the user hovers over it, for example by removing the underline, which is achieved by the next rule:
```css
a:hover {
  text-decoration: none;
}
```
In the live example below, you can play with different values for the various states of a link. I have added the rules above to it, and now realize that the pink color is quite light and hard to read — why not change that to a better color? Can you make the links bold?

{{EmbedGHLiveSample("css-examples/learn/getting-started/started3.html", '100%', 900)}}

We have removed the underline on our link on hover. You could remove the underline from all states of a link. It is worth remembering however that in a real site, you want to ensure that visitors know that a link is a link. Leaving the underline in place can be an important clue for people to realize that some text inside a paragraph can be clicked on — this is the behavior they are used to. As with everything in CSS, there is the potential to make the document less accessible with your changes — we will aim to highlight potential pitfalls in appropriate places.

> **Note:** you will often see mention of [accessibility](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/en-US/docs/Learn/Accessibility) in these lessons and across MDN. When we talk about accessibility we are referring to the requirement for our webpages to be understandable and usable by everyone.
> 
> Your visitor may well be on a computer with a mouse or trackpad, or a phone with a touchscreen. Or they might be using a screenreader, which reads out the content of the document, or they may need to use much larger text, or be navigating the site using the keyboard only.
> 
> A plain HTML document is generally accessible to everyone — as you start to style that document it is important that you don't make it less accessible.

## Combining selectors and combinators

It is worth noting that you can combine multiple selectors and combinators together. For example:
```css
/* selects any <span> that is inside a <p>, which is inside an <article>  */
article p span { ... }

/* selects any <p> that comes directly after a <ul>, which comes directly after an <h1>  */
h1 + ul + p { ... }

You can combine multiple types together, too. Try adding the following into your code:

body h1 + p .special {
  color: yellow;
  background-color: black;
  padding: 5px;
}
```
This will style any element with a class of `special`, which is inside a `<p>`, which comes just after an `<h1>`, which is inside a `<body>`. Phew!

In the original HTML we provided, the only element styled is `<span class="special">`.

Don't worry if this seems complicated at the moment — you'll soon start to get the hang of it as you write more CSS.